add a fido2 guide (#17261)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/guide/browser-tests-passkeys.md

> ---

Author: Editorial suggestion:
Let's keep Passkeys with a capitalized "P"
This is the way Apple talks about it

> title: Using Passkeys (FIDO2) In Browser Tests

Author: @ruizb 
Get you please give a quick review for this doc page (file /browser-tests-passkeys.md)

kind: guide
description: Learn how to ensure your Synthetic browser tests can log in to your applications. 
further_reading:
  - link: '/synthetics/guide/app-that-requires-login/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Learn more about authentication in browser test'
  - link: '/synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'TOTPs for Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) in browser tests'
  - link: 'synthetics/settings/?tab=specifyvalue#global-variables'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Learn more about global variables'
---

## Overview

Passkeys (FIDO2) offer stronger security than the standard username and password tuple, and rely on cryptographic login credentials that are unique across every website. Passkeys never leave your user's devices and are never stored on a web application server. This security model eliminates the risks of phishing, all forms of password theft, and replay attacks.

> You can use Passkeys as a replacement for a username and password or as a second factor authentication. Synthetic Monitoring can now generate, store and use Passkeys to test your application’s Passkeys-based authentication modules and critical user journeys without disabling this critical security measure.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use Passkeys as a replacement for a username and password or as a second factor authentication. Synthetic Monitoring can now generate, store and leverage Passkeys to test your application’s Passkeys-based authentication modules and critical user journeys without disabling this critical security measure.
```

## Create your Virtual Authenticator global variable

> {{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-passkeys/new-variable-fido2.png" alt="Create a FIDO2 key" style="width:70%;" >}}

Author: screenshot will be updated once app work is done

{{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-passkeys/new-variable-fido2.png" alt="Create a FIDO2 key" style="width:70%;" >}}

## Use passkeys in your Synthetic tests
When [creating a browser test][3], complete your application's passkeys login/registering flow using the passkeys stored in your virtual authenticator global variable.
**Note:** Today passkeys are only supported in Chrome and Edge Synthetics browser tests.

### Test a registration flow

To test a registration flow using passkeys in your [browser tests][3]:

1. Import your Virtual Authenticator global variable into your test.[Documentation][5] 
2. Navigate to the page to register your passkey. When recording your test, Datadog automatically completes any passkey registration challenge by generating a passkey using the virtual authenticator. The passkey will then be store on Datadog.
3. After recording your test steps, click **Save & Launch Test**.

### Test a login flow

To test a login flow using a passkey in your [browser tests][3], you need to have your Datadog Passkey registered on the web application (see section above). This is required once per key and application.

**Note:**

> This can be done either by completing the registration form from within the recorder without recording the registration steps, or by creating a test that embeds both the recording and the login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done in two ways:
- Either by completing once the registration flow from within the recorder, but without recording the registration steps,
- Or by creating a test that embeds both steps for the registration and login flows.
```

1. Import your virtual authenticator global variable. [Documentation][5] 

> 2. Navigate to the page to login with your passkey. When recording your test, Datadog automatically log in using the passkey previously registered on the web application with the selected virtual authenticator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the page to login with your passkey. When recording your test, Datadog automatically logs in using the passkey previously registered on the web application with the selected virtual authenticator.
```

---
title: Using Passkeys (FIDO2) In Browser Tests
kind: guide
description: Learn how to ensure your Synthetic browser tests can log in to your applications. 
further_reading:
  - link: '/synthetics/guide/app-that-requires-login/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Learn more about authentication in browser test'
  - link: '/synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'TOTPs for Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) in browser tests'
  - link: 'synthetics/settings/?tab=specifyvalue#global-variables'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Learn more about global variables'
---

## Overview

Passkeys (FIDO2) offer stronger security than the standard username and password tuple, and rely on cryptographic login credentials that are unique across every website. Passkeys never leave your user's devices and are never stored on a web application server. This security model eliminates the risks of phishing, all forms of password theft, and replay attacks.

> You can use passkeys as a replacement for a username and password, or as a second factor authentication. By generating, storing, and leveraging passkeys, Synthetics Monitoring can help you test your critical passkeys-protected user journeys without disabling this important security measure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use passkeys as a replacement for a username and password, or as a second factor authentication. By generating, storing, and leveraging passkeys, Synthetic Monitoring can help you test your critical passkey-protected user journeys without disabling this important security measure.
```

## Create your Virtual Authenticator global variable

> Passkeys in Synthetic Monitoring are handled by Virtual Authenticator Global Variables. 
> To create a Virtual Authenticator global variable storing your passkeys, see the [**Global Variables** section in Synthetic Monitoring & Continuous Testing Settings][4].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Passkeys in Synthetic Monitoring are handled by Virtual Authenticator global variables. To create a Virtual Authenticator global variable storing your passkeys, see the [**Global Variables** section in Synthetic Monitoring & Continuous Testing Settings][4].
```

> {{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-passkeys/new-variable-virtual-authenticator.png" alt="Create a Virtual Authenticator" style="width:70%;" >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-passkeys/new-variable-virtual-authenticator.png" alt="Create a Virtual Authenticator global variable" style="width:70%;" >}}
```

> ## Use passkeys in your Synthetic tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use passkeys in your Synthetic browser tests
```

> When [creating a browser test][3], complete your application's passkeys registration/authentication flow using the passkeys stored in your virtual authenticator global variable.
> **Note:** Passkeys are only supported in Chrome and Edge Synthetics browser tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When [creating a browser test][3], complete your application's passkeys registration and authentication flow using the passkeys stored in your virtual authenticator global variable. Synthetic Monitoring supports passkeys in browser tests for Chrome and Edge.
```

### Test a registration flow

To test a registration flow using passkeys in your [browser tests][3]:

> 1. Import your Virtual Authenticator global variable into your test.[Documentation][5] 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Import your Virtual Authenticator global variable][5] into your test. 
```

> 2. Navigate to the page to register your passkey. When recording your test, Datadog automatically generates and stores a new passkey, using the imported virtual authenticator global variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the page to register your passkey. When recording your test, Datadog automatically generates and stores a new passkey by using the imported virtual authenticator global variable.
```

3. After recording your test steps, click **Save & Launch Test**.

### Test a login flow

> To test a login flow using a passkey in your [browser tests][3], you need to first register your Datadog passkey on the web application (see section above). This is required once per key and application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test a login flow using a passkey in your [browser tests][3], you need to first register your Datadog passkey on the web application in Step 2. This is required once per passkey and application.
```

> **Note:**
> This can be done in two ways:
> - Either by completing once the registration flow from within the recorder, but without recording the registration steps,
> - Or by creating a test that embeds both steps for the registration and login flows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can either:

- Complete the registration flow from within the recorder, but without recording the registration steps, or
- Create a test that embeds both steps for the registration and login flows.
```

> 1. Import your virtual authenticator global variable. [Documentation][5] 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Import your virtual authenticator global variable][5]. 
```
